whether or not the government is going
to admit there's a recession you see
what's going on in today's video we're
going to talk about the shortterm the
long-term then we're going to actually
look at some things that are fundamental
the deficits the debt and what it means
for you if you want to make good
decisions you have to know everything
that I'm going to talk about in this
video today I'm going to try to move
through the points that you obviously
know really quickly I don't want to
waste your time but we're going to go in
depth on the aspects that you need to
take control of right now you came here
for the truth so let me unveil that for
you today I want to talk first about the
short term you can see right here the
stock market in this example showing
Nvidia some of the biggest moves coming
from this one stock imagine a stock
moving 300 billion dollar in one single
day that's bigger than most companies
most big companies out there are not
$300 billion and yet this stock is
swinging left and right up and down and
it's all because of the mass speculation
that's taking place here today we go on
CPI inflation report pumps the breaks on
big fat rate cut bets they want more the
markets investors speculators and just
about everybody they are begging not
just for
0.25% cut in interest rates oh baby they
want that big one 50 basis point
0.5% why because it can go further and
further by the end of the year this is
what they need they need that hit US
inflation May soon undershoot the fed's
2% Target that's what they're telling us
it's all connected you see they have to
make a case for cutting faster these are
the short-term things this is what's
happening watch the inflation numbers as
they come out we're looking at CPI core
pce and as well as the PPI producer
price index those are the basic ones
that the Federal Reserve are going to be
looking at when they make a decision
what about longterm let's discuss that
right here very quickly Americans are
falling behind on their bills Wall
Street is alarmed not enough to of
course to sell any stocks but they're
paying attention lenders see a rise in
late payments on credit cards and auto
loans when you look down in here you'll
see what's happening they are not making
their payments as they did before this
is getting worse delinquencies are on
the rise yeah you've got the credit card
bills you've got auto loans these things
are in fact getting worse it depends you
know they'll they'll sort of poke at one
particular statistic or another but know
that this has been adding up for a while
in general there's been a bigger issue
for people in the bottom half of the
income Spectrum it usually is the case
and certainly no different today but
those warning signs are certainly there
we also have the job
situation this is just talking this
particular article snowlake ISM genz
hires are easily offended and not ready
for the work Place according to Business
Leaders that's debatable and I would
love to know what you think in the
comments is that a true statement for
the most part or is it that they want
something else and it's a different
world than it was 20 30 40 years ago and
it's simply a matter of times changing
right in um in this really what I'm
trying to get at is that the jobs Market
is changing we've got remote work that's
going on today that we didn't have
before there are many fundament
differences that are really you know
it's like as if people can't keep up
with The Changing Times so it's
something that is going on when these
companies are there and they're trying
to essentially uh adapt but will they be
able to that's a big question look at
this countries with the fastest growing
millionaire population you look at this
it's just a few examples on here but
understand that the money is Flowing to
certain groups those gen Z people the
only way that they are going to be able
to afford a home is if they are given
money because their job is not going to
pay them enough when they graduate to
actually be able to afford a home some
other people on the opposite end they're
making more money than ever before you
see that right here today so I'm trying
to make this clear about what's
happening fundamentally because of the
inflation we talked about in the first
part leading up to the longterm here we
can see the problems that are going on
people can't afford homes people can't
afford their Basic Essentials yes of
course some people though doing real
good this is out of China raising
retirement age a proactive response to
population aging all right and you've
seen different countries do this before
some in Europe hey it's not going to be
65 it's going to be 67 it's going to be
68 they keep increasing this and
certainly the world has changed overall
but know that what you thought was the
dream before is not today it is a very
different world for many reasons that's
what I'm trying to get at okay working
longer working more two people in the
household have to work to keep up with
the household that quite frankly they
are struggling with today this is a a
very big difference from what we had
before these are some key issues that I
want to discuss where I want to focus
here today us budget Gap reaches 1.9
trillion as fiscal year nears an end can
you believe
this like the sheer amount of debt the
how how bad the deficits have
become it's shocking even though I've
been studying this for so long seeing it
all happen my goodness is it wild to see
it getting worse and worse and worse I
mean think about this the interest rates
right now at this high level coupled
with the total dollar value of the
amount of debt that's there and paying
interest on that cumulative interest
expense surpasses $1 trillion for the
first time ever now this is something
that will not be paid back it can not be
paid back and of course we have to
eventually um you know deal with the
problems and that will be done not the
Bold way not the courageous way but in
fact will be paid back with confetti so
the next Crisis that we
encounter we will be paying that back
with deflated or uh basically devalued
currencies this is what you need to
realize Big Time us interest expense
versus defense spending look at it debt
interest is now the second largest US
Government outlay category it's climbing
very quickly up to the Social Security
spending all of these things in my
opinion are taking up way too much of
the total cash that people are doing out
each and every day their taxpayer
dollars
you're
working and you're you know depending
what tax bracket you're in you're
working half the year you're working
into June maybe
July just to pay all of this
including that nonsense interest okay
you got to get your situation together
there are a few things that you not not
that you should do that you have to do I
talk about the pillars of prosperity
there are two
things you got to get your your
situation in order when it comes to
preparedness these things are basic
they're obvious having good connections
is very important that's part of it but
you've got to get your income up just
today I was talking with somebody about
a new business
opportunity and whether that actually
amounts to anything that's I've already
got my hands totally full let me tell
you um and and so
basically I'm always trying to see what
I I can do and this is something that
you can always leverage other people
other business partners other expertise
that individuals have and you can
collaborate you don't need to be
everything or you could do what I do
what I've taught and that is to use a
you know a scalable business I do Amazon
there's there's Tik Tok there's all
these kind of uh businesses to sell on
e-commerce why why e-commerce because of
the
scalability not because you may like
certain products not because of any
other reason scalability because while
you're working a 9 to5 you still have
this opportunity to start something on
the side but it can't be like if you're
doing something in you're a handy person
and then you go and want to let's just
say you can paint and you want to paint
people's houses or paint people's fences
and decks and porches okay when can you
do that if you're working at 95 oh you
have to come at the night time you have
to come in the weekends and so on okay
well what if it's the winter time oh
well suddenly you can't do some things
you see when you're doing a business
that's online you have this opportunity
to suddenly do things anytime you have
available time that's really the
difference that's what makes it so
unique and so special um that's why I
love it that's the things that I have
been teaching but number one get your
situation in order finances the best you
can this is the important stuff I've got
company available on my website for free
the money gps.com Compass it's a free
financial education course for everybody
doesn't require email doesn't require
anything all right and then you go here
and you could look at my website um the
money there'll be a link right at the
top the money gps.com
slive and on here is where I teach
people live I teach them how to build an
online business and this is very unique
because nobody actually takes you
through the like the granularity where
you're just asking me in a very small
group Zoom setting where you're like Hey
how do I do this certain thing and I
just explain it unlike many of these
other so so-called teachers uh they
haven't been through that process so
they just like learn barely learned how
to do something and then suddenly
they're like a guru uh I don't do that
I've actually been through the process
and still going through it today and I
share everything okay in there and uh if
you were in it early on it's very
different now let me tell you today if
you want to join that or the finance
Friday live just hit that link at the
top of the description I'm going to be
doing uh likely less and less of the
videos over time and uh just because I'm
just tied up with my other things and if
you you want to continue to uh be able
to contact me and see me regularly then
that's going to be the place um at least
for now so I appreciate you being here
as always if you want to support the
channel hit that Thumbs Up Button I'll
see you on the next one take care